1. Why MapReduce program is needed in Pig Programming?

          * Pig’s programming language referred to as Pig Latin is a coding approach that provides high degree of abstraction for MapReduce
     programming but is a procedural code not declarative.
          * Pig is written in Java and allows for developers to write User Defined functions in Java that leverage Java Libraries. So, we 
     can call Pig Latin a second-class language in MapReduce.
     
2. Advantages of pig over MapReduce : 

          *	Decrease in development time. This is the biggest advantage especially considering map-reduce jobs' complexity, time-spent 
     and maintenance of the programs.
          *	Learning curve is not steep.
          *	Procedural, not declarative unlike SQL, so easier to follow the commands and provides better expressiveness in the
     transformation of data every step. Also, you could control of the execution of every step. If you want to write your own
     UDF(User Defined Function) and inject in one specific part in the pipeline, it is straightforward.
          *	In Python or Java, you create the control structures(for loop and ifs) and get the data transformation as a side effect. In 
     here, data and because of data, data transformation is a first class citizen. Without data, you cannot create for loops, you need to
     always transform and manipulate data. 
          *	Enjoys everything that Hadoop offers, parallelization, fault-tolerancy with many relational database features.
          *	It is quite effective for unstructured and messy large datasets. Actually, Pig is one of the best tool to make the large
     unstructured data to structured.
          *	You have UDFs which you want to parallellize and utilize for large amounts of data, then you are in luck. Use Pig as a base
     pipeline where it does the hard work and you just apply your UDF in the step that you want.
     
3. Pig Engine and its Importance :
           Pig engine is an interpreter between Pig Latin Script and MapReduce jobs. It creates an environment to Pig scripts into series
      of MapReduce jobs in parallel manner.

4. The modes of Pig execution :
           You can run Apache Pig in two modes, namely, Local Mode and HDFS mode.

             1) Local Mode :
                      In this mode, all the files are installed and run from your local host and local file system. There is no need of 
                Hadoop or HDFS. This mode is generally used for testing purpose.

             2) MapReduce Mode :
                      MapReduce mode is where we load or process the data that exists in the Hadoop File System (HDFS) using Apache Pig.
                In this mode, whenever we execute the Pig Latin statements to process the data, a MapReduce job is invoked in the back-end
                to perform a particular operation on the data that exists in the HDFS.
                
5. Grunt shell in Pig :
              You can run Apache Pig in interactive mode using the Grunt shell. In this shell, you can enter the Pig Latin statements and
          get the output. 
              After invoking the Grunt shell, you can run your Pig scripts in the shell. In addition to that, there are certain useful
          shell and utility commands provided by the Grunt shell.
          
6. Features of Pig Latin language :-
          •	It provides many operators to perform operations like join, sort, filer, etc.
          •	Pig Latin is similar to SQL and it is easy to write a Pig script if you are good at SQL.
          •	The tasks in Apache Pig optimize their execution automatically, so the programmers need to focus only on semantics of the
         language.
          •	Using the existing operators, users can develop their own functions to read, process, and write data.
          •	Pig provides the facility to create User-defined Functions in other programming languages such as Java and invoke or embed
         them in Pig Scripts.
          •	Apache Pig analyzes all kinds of data, both structured as well as unstructured. It stores the results in HDFS.
          
7. Is Pig latin commands case sensitive? 
             No,Pig Latin is not case sensitive language. Only the relation names and the file name should be case sensitive.        
             
8.  Data flow language :-             
             In computer programming, dataflow programming is a programming language that models a program as a directed graph of the
         data flowing between operations, thus implementing dataflow principles and architecture.
